---
eleventyNavigation:
  key: Misc. Info
  order: 2
page:
  class: misc-info
subTitle: Misc. Info
---

{% ToC %}

---

## AC & DC

### AC

AC power is the standard for electrical power supplied to homes and businesses because of its ease of transmission over long distances, as well as in household appliances and commercial electrical systems. AC is the preferred choice for power transmission because AC voltages can be easily transformed to higher or lower voltage levels.
- Pros:
    - AC voltage can be easily increased/decreased using a transformer. This helps in power transmission over long distances by minimizing energy loss.
    - In high-voltage, long-distance transmission, AC power experiences lower power losses compared to DC power.
    - Home appliances are widely available for AC power sources due to the efficiency of AC in power distribution.
    - Systems using AC power can utilize power phase differences to share loads among different phases, leading to greater power efficiency.
- Cons:
    - AC power poses a higher risk compared to DC due to the higher peak voltage.
    - AC waveforms can easily be distorted by inductive and capacitive loads.
    - Installing an AC supply needs more precautions than DC due to higher risks of shock.
- Common Uses:
    - Power Distribution: Preferred for power distribution due to it's efficient transmission over long distances.
    - Home and Office: Wall outlets, typically supplying 120 volts of AC power, make AC the standard for house electricity. This power source efficiently supports appliances like refrigerators, air conditioners, washing machines, vacuum cleaners, computers, televisions, and others, allowing them to operate safely and reliably.
    - Industrial Applications: Various industrial and manufacturing processes such as metalworking, chemical processing, and assembly line production. This is because AC power provides a high level of controlled energy that is essential for these manufacturing processes.
    - Transportation System: AC power has become the primary source of power for various transportation systems such as electric trains, cars, buses, and airplanes. This shift toward AC power has been driven by its high efficiency, reliability, and reduced maintenance requirements.

### DC

An electric current that flows consistently in one single direction. The intensity of the current does not vary with time; thus, it's called direct current. Batteries, fuel cells, and solar cells produce direct current.
- Pros:
    - Flows evenly throughout the cross-sectional area of the wire, reducing loss of power due to the 'skin effect' in AC in short-distance or low-power appliances.
    - Does not entail the phase factor. Unlike AC, DC can be stored.
    - DC systems generally incur fewer losses, and the power transmitted is high.
- Cons:
    - DC systems are more expensive due to higher insulation requirements.
    - Unlike AC, the level of DC voltage cannot be changed easily without losing considerable energy.
    - DC cannot be transmitted economically over long distances due to a drop in voltage.
- Common Uses:
    - Transportation: Used to charge the batteries of electric cars, buses, and trucks. DC fast charging stations can provide high power output to replenish the battery in a matter of minutes, allowing for longer trips and reducing the range anxiety of electric vehicle owners.
    - Telecommunication Systems: Becoming more common in the telecom and computing industry as companies look for more energy-efficient solutions. This industry uses DC power to operate mobile phone towers, data centers, and servers.
    - Renewable Energy Systems: Generated by solar panels and can also come from batteries, fuel cells, and thermo-electric generators. In renewable energy systems, DC power is often stored in batteries to hold excess energy for later use. DC-to-AC inverters are used to convert DC power into AC power that can be fed into the grid or used in buildings.
    - Electronics: DC power is used to power smartphones, notebooks, earbuds, and other portable devices, as well as home appliances such as TVs, cameras, and gaming consoles. With the increasing demand for mobile devices and the need for fast charging, DC power technology has evolved to deliver higher power output and greater efficiency. 

### Details about AC and DC

- Batteries: Batteries naturally provide DC voltage and current. 
- Home appliances: The AC from the outlet is converted to DC using capacitors and other devices to run home appliances such as televisions. 
- Multimeters: Most multimeters can measure AC systems, but AC circuits can be dangerous.

### Q & A

**How do I know if I need AC or DC?**
> Identifying AC and DC current involves observing the direction of current flow and the characteristics of the electrical signal.
>
> Direction of Current:
> - **AC**: The current periodically changes direction, flowing back and forth.
> - **DC**: The current flows consistently in one direction.

**What are examples of household appliances that convert AC to DC?**
> Most phone chargers, laptop chargers, LED light bulbs with built-in drivers, computer power supplies, televisions, microwaves, and any device with a "power brick" that plugs into a wall outlet as they all need to convert the AC from the wall to a stable DC to operate properly.

**Since appliances convert AC to DC, why can't I just plug into DC?**
> Most appliances run on DC internally, but are wired for the AC to DC conversion since most things that supply power are AC and the conversion supplies a specific voltage to the device. Running from a random DC source that's not configured to supply a specific limited amount of voltage could burn out/damage your appliance.

---

## Random Info

- Amperage makes wires hot.
- When you wire panels in series, the voltage stacks. When you wire panels in parallel, the amperage stacks.
- The length of wire from inverter to battery can cause resistance (heat) if it's too long.
- The percentage efficiency of an inverter is how much you subtract from battery life. So if an inverter is 92% efficient, it's eating the other 8%.
- If a panel has a max voltage of something like 18.6v, you should round it up to 20 since panels output more on very cold days.

---

## Equations

### Amps, Volts, Watts

```clike
 Amps = Watts / Volts
Volts = Watts / Amps
Watts = Amps * Volts
```

### Determining WH (Watt Hours)

The WH is roughly the usable power you'll have from a battery. When converting DC to AC via an Inverter, some of the energy is lost so you have to account for the Inverter's efficiency.

```clike
V * AH (Amp hours) = DCWA (Direct Current Watt hours) * IE% (inverter efficiency) = ACWA (Alternating Current Watt hours)

12.8V * 200AH = 2560DCWA * 90% = 2304ACWA

(12.8 * 200) * 0.9 = 2,304
```

### Determining Solar Charge Controller Based on Your Battery 

Say you have a solar panel that produces `200W` and a battery with a charging voltage of `14.4V`.

```clike
12V battery = 14.4V charge voltage.

200W/14.4V = 13.8A (round up to 14) | A 20A controller would work considering a 20% buffer.

---

24V battery = 28.8V charge voltage.

200W/28.8V = 6.9A (round up to 7) | A 10A controller would work considering a 20% buffer.
```

### Determining Fuse/Breaker Size for Solar Charge Controller

```clike
Amps * 1.25 = Size

30A * 1.25 = 37.5 // Get a 40A fuse/breaker
```

### Determining Fuse/Breaker Size Between Inverter & Battery

To determine the fuse size coming from the battery to the inverter, multiply the maximum current the inverter is rated for by `1.25`.

1. Get the max current for the inverter
    ```clike
    MaxCurrent = Watts / Volts / Efficiency
                  2000W /  12V  / 85%
                  2000  /  12   / 0.85 = 196
    ```
1. Get the fuse/breaker size. The buffer size of `1.25` comes from the national electric code and because running fuses and breakers _**at**_ their rated current for extended periods will eventually cause them to blow or trip.
    ```clike
    SafetyBuffer = 1.25
    MaxCurrent * SafetyBuffer = FuseSize
    
    196 * 1.25 = 245 // Get a 250A ANL fuse/fuse block/breaker
    ```

In the case where you end up with a fuse amperage that's difficult to find, go with a fuse that's lower than the determined size. Make sure that the fuse block and breaker are rated at or above the determined value though - that way if the fuse blows, it'll be the only thing that has to get replaced.

---

## Solar Panels

### Wiring in Series

- Volts are multiplied by number of panels, and Amps are the same.
- **Pros**: Simpler, cheaper, easier to manage. Solar panels >= 100W have bypass diodes so if a panel is shaded it just goes into bypass, which means the array can continue producing and (for the most part) only the shaded panel's output drops off. 
- **Cons**: Like old christmas lights, if one panel is in shade or malfunctioning, none of the panels produce power.

:::_ .drawing
```clike
╔═══════════════════════════╗
║ ┌─────┐  ┌─────┐  ┌─────┐ ║
║ │ 25V │  │ 25V │  │ 25V │ ║
  │ 10A │  │ 10A │  │ 10A │           ┌──────────┐
  │     │  │     │  │     │           │ Inverter │
  └─────┘  └─────┘  └─────┘           │          │
  +     -  +     -  +     -           │   75V    │
  │     ╰┅┅╯     ╰┅┅╯     ╰────┅┅─── -│   10A    │
  ╰────────────────────────────┅┅─── +│          │
                                      └──────────┘
```
:::

### Wiring in Parallel

- Amps are multiplied by number of panels, and Volts are the same.
- **Pros**: Each panel generates power on it's own and isn't effected if one panel is shaded or malfunctioning.
- **Cons**: Requires branch connectors, inline fuses, wires at and after branch need to be thicker to account for extra current. Is more costly.

:::_ .drawing
```clike
╔═════════╦═════════╦═════════╗
║ ┌─────┐ ║ ┌─────┐ ║ ┌─────┐ ║
║ │ 25V │ ║ │ 25V │ ║ │ 25V │ ║
  │ 10A │   │ 10A │   │ 10A │          ┌──────────┐
  │     │   │     │   │     │          │ Inverter │
  └─────┘   └─────┘   └─────┘          │          │
  +     -   +     -  +     -           │   25V    │
  │     │   │     │  │     ╰──┅┅╮   ╭ -│   30A    │
  │     │   │     ╰──│────────┅┅┼┅┅─╯ +│          │
  │     ╰───│────────│────────┅┅╯     │└──────────┘
  │         │        ╰───────┅═┅╮     │
  │         ╰────────────────┅═┅┼┅┅───╯
  ╰──────────────────────────┅═┅╯
                              │
                           [fuse] (prevent back-power to panel)
```
:::

### Wiring in both Series and Parallel

- Panels should be even numbered, and not have mis-matching outputs.
- Bring in more power, but allow for the Inverter to accept the extra load.

:::_ .drawing
```clike
╔══════════════════╦══════════════════╗
║ ┌─────┐  ┌─────┐ ║ ┌─────┐  ┌─────┐ ║
║ │ 25V │  │ 25V │ ║ │ 25V │  │ 25V │ ║
  │ 10A │  │ 10A │   │ 10A │  │ 10A │        ┌──────────┐
  │     │  │     │   │     │  │     │        │ Inverter │
  └─────┘  └─────┘   └─────┘  └─────┘        │          │
  +     -  +     -   +     -  +     -        │   50V    │
  │     ╰┅┅╯     │   │     ╰┅┅╯     ╰┅┅┬┅┅─ -│   20A    │
  │              ╰───│───────────────┅┅╯    +│          │
  │                  ╰──────────────┅═┅╮    │└──────────┘
  ╰─────────────────────────────────┅═┅┴┅┅──╯
                                     │
                           [fuse] (prevent back-power to panel)
```
:::

---

## Batteries

### Wiring In Parallel

- 12V/80A - AH (Amp Hours) are multiplied by number of batteries.
- To ensure current is being pulled evenly across the battery array, you should hook the negative to one end and positive to the other. You can hook them both up to just one end (one battery) but it may strain that one battery.
- You can use one battery monitor for batteries connected in parallel because when wired this way, all the batteries act as a single unit with the same voltage, so monitoring one battery effectively monitors the entire parallel bank.

:::_ .drawing
```clike
        ╭───────────╮╭───────────╮╭────────────╮
┌─────┬─│┐   ┌─────┬││┐   ┌─────┬││┐   ┌─────┬─│┐
│    +│ ╽│   │    +│╽╽│   │    +│╽╽│   │    +│ ╽│ ╾──╮
│     └──┤   │     └──┤   │     └──┤   │     └──┤    │
│        │   │        │   │        │   │        │    ├───────
│     ┌──┤   │     ┌──┤   │     ┌──┤   │     ┌──┤    │ in/out
│    -│ ╿│   │    -│╿╿│   │    -│╿╿│   │    -│ ╿│    │
└─────┴─│┘   └─────┴││┘   └─────┴││┘   └─────┴─│┘    │
        ╰───────────╯╰───────────╯╰────────────╯     │
       ╿                                             │
       ╰─────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```
:::

### Wiring In Series

48V/20A
:::_ .drawing
```clike
┌─────┬──┐   ┌─────┬──┐   ┌─────┬──┐   ┌─────┬──┐  
│    +│ ╾──╮ │    +│ ╾──╮ │    +│ ╾──╮ │    +│  │ ╾──╮
│     └──┤ │ │     └──┤ │ │     └──┤ │ │     └──┤    │
│        │ │ │        │ │ │        │ │ │        │    │
│     ┌──┤ │ │     ┌──┤ │ │     ┌──┤ │ │     ┌──┤    ├───────
│    -│  │ │ │    -│ ╾─╮│ │    -│ ╾─╮│ │    -│ ╾─╮   │ in/out
└─────┴──┘ │ └─────┴──┘││ └─────┴──┘││ └─────┴──┘│   │
        ╿  ╰───────────╯╰───────────╯╰───────────╯   │
        ╰────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```
:::

---

## Solar Charge Controller

**Q:** Do I need a Controller?  
> You should add a controller whenever you are connecting solar panels directly to a battery bank, as it is necessary to prevent overcharging and protect the battery life, meaning most off-grid setups with a battery require a controller; generally, if your solar panel system is powering a device directly without a battery storage, you may not need a controller, but for any significant power output to a battery, a controller is essential.

**Q:** How much solar power does the contoller need before it starts charging?
> LiFePO4 batteries operate in the range of approx. 11.6 (discharged) to 13.6 (fully charged) A MPPT charge controller will not start charging unless the voltage from the solar panels is at least 5 Volts above whatever the battery voltage is at that moment. For example lets say your battery is sitting there at 12.8V and you want to charge it. The input terminals on the MPPT must be receiving at least 12.8V + 5V = 17.8V before it will wake up and start charging.
>
> When charging starts the MPPT will ramp up the charging voltage to drive current to the battery.


### Types of Controllers

- `PWM`: Pulse-Width Modulation
- `MPPT`: Maximum Power Point Tracking

### Determining the Correct Controller

When specing out a controller, there are commonly two numbers called out, something like `100 | 50`.
- `100` is the maximum input voltage. If your panels deliver more than that, it'll fry the controller. You can determine how much the panel could deliver via the `Voc` (Open circuit voltage), which should be listed on the panel or it's included pamphlet. So if a panel states something like `28V+5%`, `28` is the max, and pad it out by 20%, so on a cold clear day the panel may output `34V` (not common, but could happen).
- `50` is the maximum output amperage. If you exceed it, the controller will likely get stuck in a reset/reboot loop. So if the battery/inverter is outputting 13V and you have panels in series bringing in 600V, you'd divide `600V` by `13V` which would be `46`. So with fluctuations in solar output, that `46` could spike above the allowed `50`, causing a reset.

Generally, a larger battery charge voltage equates to a cheaper charge controller.

### Wiring a Controller

Charge controllers have Bat (to battery) output and PV (photo vultaic - solar) input. If your battery is live (no breaker or shut-off in between), and you have solar power coming in to the system, **DO NOT** hook up PV before Bat is wired because it could burn up the controller.

---

## Fuses & Breakers

Fuses & breakers exist to protect wires not equipment.

It is not okay to use a fuse that is slightly higher than the recommended amperage of your wire since it can lead to potential safety hazards like overheating/melting wires, damage to electrical components, and increased fire risk; always use a fuse that matches the specified amperage or a slightly lower one if necessary to ensure proper protection.

Some devices call out operating values (consistent running) and variable values (can handle up to X value for a finite time before failure). To avoid constant breaker trips or fuse burnouts, spec fuses or breakers to something slightly below variable values. So if a component can handle spikes of up to `50A`, but is rated for `30A`, go with a `40A` fuse/breaker. Of course your wire will need to be rated for at least `50A` for safety.

---

## Wires

Tinned copper is equally conductive to bare copper, but the tin coating improves the wire's overall performance in many ways:
- **Conductivity**: The tin coating doesn't negatively affect the wire's conductivity. 
- **Corrosion resistance**: The tin coating protects the wire from corrosion and oxidation, especially in wet or saltwater environments. 
- **Thermal stability**: Tinned copper maintains its conductivity at high temperatures, making it suitable for industrial and marine applications. 
- **Lifespan**: The tin coating extends the life of the wire. 
- **Solderability**: The tin coating improves the wire's solderability. 
- **Surface**: The tin coating provides an optimal surface for heat and electrical transfer. 

### Sizing

<style>
  .wire-awg-chart { width: 100%; font-size: 0.9em; background: #FFF; }
  @container page (max-width: 799px) {
    .wire-awg-chart { font-size: 1.6vi; }
  }
  .wire-awg-chart thead { position: sticky; top: var(--linkScrollOffset); }
  .wire-awg-chart td { text-align: center; white-space: nowrap; border-color: #000; }
  .wire-awg-chart__label { color: #000; font-weight: bold; background: #FFF; }
  .awg-12 { color: #000; background: #FED800; }
  .awg-10 { color: #000; background: #FF7901; }
  .awg-8 { color: #FFF; background: #F40001; }
  .awg-6 { color: #000; background: #5CB501; }
  .awg-4 { color: #000; background: #01A2C4; }
  .awg-2 { color: #FFF; background: #1A40C5; }
  .awg-1-0 { color: #FFF; background: #864BB7; }
  .awg-2-0 { color: #FFF; background: #D139A8; }
</style>

<table class="wire-awg-chart">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th class="wire-awg-chart__label"></th>
      <th class="wire-awg-chart__label">0-4 ft</th>
      <th class="wire-awg-chart__label">4-7 ft</th>
      <th class="wire-awg-chart__label">7-10 ft</th>
      <th class="wire-awg-chart__label">10-13 ft</th>
      <th class="wire-awg-chart__label">13-16 ft</th>
      <th class="wire-awg-chart__label">16-19 ft</th>
      <th class="wire-awg-chart__label">19-22 ft</th>
    <tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td class="wire-awg-chart__label">250-300A</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-2">2 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-2">2 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-1-0">1/0 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-1-0">1/0 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-1-0">1/0 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-2-0">2/0 AWG</td>
    <tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="wire-awg-chart__label">200-250A</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-2">2 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-2">2 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-1-0">1/0 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-1-0">1/0 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-1-0">1/0 AWG</td>
    <tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="wire-awg-chart__label">150-200A</td>
      <td class="awg-6">6 or 4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-2">2 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-2">2 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-1-0">1/0 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-1-0">1/0 AWG</td>
    <tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="wire-awg-chart__label">125-150A</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-6">6 or 4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-2">2 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-2">2 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-2">2 AWG</td>
    <tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="wire-awg-chart__label">105-125A</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-6">6 or 4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-2">2 AWG</td>
    <tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="wire-awg-chart__label">85-105A</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-6">6 or 4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
    <tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="wire-awg-chart__label">65-85A</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-6">6 or 4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
    <tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="wire-awg-chart__label">50-65A</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-6">6 or 4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-6">6 or 4 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-4">4 AWG</td>
    <tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="wire-awg-chart__label">35-50A</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-6">6 or 4 AWG</td>
    <tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="wire-awg-chart__label">20-35A</td>
      <td class="awg-12">12 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-8">8 AWG</td>
    <tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="wire-awg-chart__label">0-20A</td>
      <td class="awg-12">12 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-12">12 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-12">12 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-12">12 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
      <td class="awg-10">10 AWG</td>
    <tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

---

## Types of Receptacles

**Outlet**

The (NEC) National Electrical Code defines an outlet as:
> A point on the wiring system at which current is taken to supply utilization equipment.  

In other words, it is where power is taken OUT of the system to be used by something.

This would include a receptacle, but it would also include the point at which a light fixture, an appliance, a ceiling fan, the air conditioner outside, a hardwired smoke detector, or a ceiling fan is connected to the home's electrical system.

**Receptacle**

According to the NEC, a receptacle is:
> A contact device installed at the outlet for connection of an attachment plug.

In other words, a receptacle is a type of outlet. A receptacle is a device that you can plug something into to power that device. In other words, a receptacle receives the plug, just like a trash receptacle receives trash. 


| Type | Usage |
| ---- | ----- |
| NEMA 5-20R (T-slot receptacle) | Standard 20A 120 volt household outlet, required by code in some bathrooms and behind some refrigerators. |
| NEMA 5-15R | Standard 15A 240 volt household outlet, found in homes and motels for running in-wall Air Conditioners, it's the smaller brother to the NEMA 5-20R. |

:::_ .drawing
```clike
    ╭─╮                 ┆         ╭─╮
    │ │        ╭─╮      ┆         │ │        ╭─╮
╭───╯ │        │ │      ┆         │ │        │ │
╰───╮ │        │ │      ┆         │ │        │ │
    │ │        ╰─╯      ┆         │ │        ╰─╯
    ╰─╯                 ┆         ╰─╯
         ╭──╮           ┆              ╭──╮
[5-20R]  │  │           ┆     [5-15R]  │  │
         └──┘           ┆              └──┘
```
:::

---

## Sources

- Will Prowse
   - [Beginner Friendly 48V Solar Power System! Step by step!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3hukFwgTFI0)
   - [Cold Temperature LiFePO4 Heater on a Budget! Beginner Friendly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m1T7S1J-Zxs)
   - [(2019) DIY 400 Watt 12 volt Solar Power System Beginner Tutorial: Great for RV's and Vans! (Part 1)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IRRKHYwB3Uo&t=397s)
   - [(2019) DIY 400 Watt Solar Power System Beginner Tutorial (Part 2)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BgUErK5jGfk)
- [Fish N' Stuff - Beginner Solar Project (shed lights)](https://youtu.be/w1b8DAO5dTQ)
- [Sizing an MPPT Charge Controller Basics](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GaPaoIjy5Ko)
- [Series vs Parallel Solar Panel Wiring Basics - Volts, Amps, Cost & More Explained](https://youtu.be/Kz5JbXTo4rM?t=75&si=Glj_Q9wiNEKOrFYt)
- [How to Size a Solar Charge Controller](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5xKyWYo9zJk)
   - https://explorist.life/solar-charge-controller-calculator/
- [How to Install Busbars in a Solar Panel System](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9FlvpMhWcLo)
- [DIY Battery Heater for Li-Ion Batteries](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPFlTh0e4Os)
- [DIY Portable 3000W Solar Generator LiFePo4 302AH 3.86KW](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oFEJgE-RHNA)
- [Determining fuse/breaker size](https://diysolarforum.com/threads/determining-fuse-size-and-inverter-considerations.54082/post-691126)
- [Wiring Batteries in Series and Parallel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gffnkJQxRAg)
- [DIY SOLAR Battery Banks - Parallel? Series? Both??: What, Why & HOW! Beginner Friendly](https://youtu.be/EDLxolJ0QxI?t=723)
- [AC vs DC, guide to electrical currents](https://www.anker.com/blogs/ac-power/ac-vs-dc-power-the-ultimate-guide-to-electrical-currents)
- [Test solar panel with multimeter](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=UnZ0-ZLm1KE)
- [Building a 12V Battery & Solar System: Do's and Don'ts and All the Basics You Need to Know](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PG7RzOyj3ME)
- [Electric Cable & Fuse Sizing](https://youtu.be/koFg6oFs0RU?t=559)
- [Pre-charging inverter](https://youtu.be/ZlrtmJRfSP8), [pre-charge w light bulb](https://youtu.be/DOrJ5AH9yjM?si=1B1FfYDU2aUIHD4o)
- [Wiring order (charge controller -> inverter -> fuse box)](https://youtu.be/IRRKHYwB3Uo?t=665)
- https://www.mobile-solarpower.com/the-classic-400-watt-rvs-vans-buses.html
- [Step by Step Complete 12 Volt Power System](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c5OYHqtUFzw)
- https://youtu.be/udzYjjmJqrE
- https://youtu.be/xu9DxwURXH8
- https://youtu.be/wPG2LPbW4Us
